Extend-or-build docs (#479)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/dropins/all/extend-or-create.mdx

- Payment processing with specific provider requirements
- Specialized functionality that doesn't align with Adobe's drop-in approach
- Legacy system integration requirements

#### Risks and responsibilities:
- **Maintenance burden** - You own all updates, bug fixes, and compatibility
- **API changes** - Must adapt to Commerce API changes independently
- **Feature gaps** - May miss out on new Commerce features
- **Support limitations** - Adobe cannot provide support for third-party code

<Aside type="caution">
**Important**: Substitution means you're responsible for maintaining compatibility with Commerce APIs and handling all future updates yourself.
</Aside>

### 3. Create (Early access)

Build entirely new drop-ins from scratch using the SDK. This is currently in early access with limited support for third-party services.

#### When creation might be considered:
- Building reusable components across multiple storefronts or brands
- No existing drop-in addresses your specific use case
- You have significant development resources and expertise
- You understand the long-term maintenance commitment

<Aside type="caution" title='Early Access Warning'>

> The drop-in SDK is currently early access with limited support for third parties. Building new drop-ins comes with these risks and limitations:
> 
> - **Limited support** - Adobe cannot provide enablement or troubleshooting help
> - **API instability** - SDK APIs may change without notice
> - **Maintenance burden** - You're responsible for all updates and compatibility
> - **Unknown timeline** - No commitment on when full support will be available
> 
> **Before building**: Contact Adobe to discuss your use case. There may be better alternatives or upcoming features that address your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The drop-in SDK is currently early access with limited support for third parties. 

**Before building:** Contact Adobe to discuss your use case.
```

---
title: Extend, substitute, or create?
description: Decision guidance for customizing drop-ins - when to extend existing ones, when to substitute with third-party solutions, and when creating new ones might be necessary.
sidebar:
  label: Extend, substitute, or create
---

import Vocabulary from '@components/Vocabulary.astro';
import Diagram from '@components/Diagram.astro';
import Aside from '@components/Aside.astro';
import Callouts from '@components/Callouts.astro';
import { Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import Tasks from '@components/Tasks.astro';
import Task from '@components/Task.astro';
import { Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

> When customizing Commerce drop-ins, you have three main approaches. **Extending** existing drop-ins is the recommended and fully supported path. **Substituting** drop-ins with third-party solutions is sometimes necessary but comes with risks. **Creating** new drop-ins from scratch is technically possible but currently experimental and unsupported. This guide helps you choose the right approach for your specific needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When customizing Commerce drop-ins, you have three main approaches. **Extending** existing drop-ins is the recommended and fully supported path. **Substituting** drop-ins with third-party solutions is sometimes necessary and possible thanks to drop-ins' composable architecture. **Creating** your own drop-ins with the Drop-in SDK (currently experimental) is another option. This guide helps you choose the right approach for your specific needs.
```

## Vocabulary

<Vocabulary>

### Extend

Modify or enhance existing drop-ins using slots, styling, events, or configuration. This is the **recommended and fully supported** approach.

### Substitute

Replace an Adobe drop-in entirely with a third-party solution (like using Stripe for checkout). This comes with maintenance responsibilities and compatibility risks.

### Create

Build a brand-new drop-in from scratch using the SDK. Currently in **early access** - experimental with limited support.

### Slots

Declarative anchors where custom UI content can be injected into a drop-in.

</Vocabulary>

## Decision guidance

Use this decision flow to determine the right approach for your needs:

<Steps>
1. **Can you achieve your goals by extending?** 
   - Use slots to add custom content
   - Apply custom styling and layouts
   - Listen to events for custom behavior
   - Modify configurations
   
   **If yes** → **Extend** (recommended path)

2. **Do you need to completely replace core functionality?**
   - Common with checkout flows (Stripe, PayPal, etc.)

>    - Third-party service provides their own UI/logic

Reviewer 2: Even these cases have potential for usage within a slot.

Author: @sirugh, I don't understand. If Stripe and other third-party services replace the entire checkout process, which drop-in do you extend without also getting that drop-in's features and functions that are substituted? You can't use the Checkout drop-in because that's the drop-in you want to replace.

Reviewer 2: The problem is with clarity of wording. There are checkout flows that do replace the entire page, and there are flows that are just "injectable" such as with payment methods.

See Paypal's docs for an example of "injectable": https://developer.paypal.com/studio/checkout/standard/integrate

So more like, if the merchant wants to replace the entire checkout flow with some all-in-one experience from a payment provider like stripe/paypal, then they would do just that. But if they want to use some of our checkout dropin/flow but integrate to Paypal/Stripe via Slots, that is also possible.

Mainly I want to make sure we don't scare people away from using our checkout just because they want to use Stripe or Paypal.

   - Adobe's drop-in doesn't fit your business model
   
   **If yes** → **Substitute** (proceed with caution)

3. **Do you need something entirely new that doesn't exist?**
   - Building for reuse across multiple storefronts/brands
   - No existing drop-in covers your use case
   - You understand the maintenance responsibilities
   

>    **If yes** → **Create** (early access, high risk)

Reviewer 2: "high risk" might be too strongly worded. early access might be enough.

Reviewer: I came to say the same.

</Aside>

## The three approaches

### 1. Extend (Recommended)

This is the **default and fully supported** approach. Extending allows you to customize drop-ins while maintaining compatibility and receiving updates.

**When to extend:**
- You need to add custom content or UI elements
- You want to change styling or layouts
- You need custom business logic that responds to drop-in events
- You want to modify how data is displayed or processed

**Extension methods:**
- **Slots** - Inject custom HTML/components at predefined points
- **Styling** - Override CSS, modify layouts, replace components
- **Events** - Listen to data events and add custom behavior
- **Configuration** - Modify drop-in settings and options
- **Transformers** - Change how drop-ins process and display data

**Benefits:**
- Fully supported by Adobe
- Automatic compatibility with updates
- Lower maintenance overhead
- Access to new features and bug fixes

### 2. Substitute (Proceed with caution)

Replace an Adobe drop-in entirely with a third-party solution. This is common in practice but comes with significant responsibilities.

**When substitution happens:**

> - Checkout flows (Stripe, PayPal, Bold Commerce, etc.)

Reviewer 2: Same comment here re: "substitution".

I wonder if we should provide actual examples...

Author: @sirugh — Same comment as above (I don't understand). Yes, we should provide examples for each option (extend, substitute, create). That will help me and others understand.

- Payment processing with specific provider requirements
- Specialized functionality that doesn't align with Adobe's drop-in approach
- Legacy system integration requirements

**Risks and responsibilities:**
- **Maintenance burden** - You own all updates, bug fixes, and compatibility
- **API changes** - Must adapt to Commerce API changes independently
- **Feature gaps** - May miss out on new Commerce features
- **Support limitations** - Adobe cannot provide support for third-party code

<Aside type="caution">
**Important**: Substitution means you're responsible for maintaining compatibility with Commerce APIs and handling all future updates yourself.
</Aside>

### 3. Create (Early access - experimental)

Build entirely new drop-ins from scratch using the SDK. This is currently in early access with limited support.

**When creation might be considered:**
- Building reusable components across multiple storefronts or brands
- No existing drop-in addresses your specific use case
- You have significant development resources and expertise
- You understand the long-term maintenance commitment

**Current limitations:**

> <Aside type="danger">

Reviewer 2: <img width="826" height="130" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3b83dd30-a0da-4e3f-9847-22f01abb0c29" />

Weird indent here.

Author: Fixed with latest build/preview. Check again.

> **Early Access Warning**: The drop-in SDK is currently experimental and unsupported for third parties. Building new drop-ins comes with significant risks:

Reviewer 2: This wording is a bit strong for me. It makes it sound like the SDK is experimental, but I know what you are trying to convey - the use of the SDK (outside of Adobe) is "EA".

Reviewer: We don't want to position it as drop-ins are experimental and not stable.

I think a "Warning" is enough. We just want to convey that it's "Early Access" with limited support for third parties. That's it.
